[Music]
it's the kind of story that makes the
hair stand up on the back of your neck
how does a person simply vanish without
a trace in broad daylight never to be
seen or heard from again 25 year-old
Dorothy
Arnel was the heiress of perfume
importer Francis Arnold as the daughter
of a rich entrepreneur Dorothy got a
great education and graduated from the
prestigious Bryn Mawr College for Women
where she majored in literature
she spoke several languages and dreamed
of becoming a writer she was smart rich
beautiful and popular in New York high
society life was going great for the
young woman that is until the day she
mysteriously disappeared on December 12
1910 10:45 a.m. Dorothy leaves a room
and goes downstairs
she meets her mom in the main hall and
tells her she's going shopping to buy a
new dress for her 19 year old sister
Marjorie's debutante party the ball is
scheduled for December 17th five days
after the incident Dorothy's mother
suggests going with her daughter to keep
her company
but the young socialite refuses and
there's good reason for that
Dorothy's mom is seriously ill and
hardly ever leaves the house mrs. Arnold
doesn't notice anything strange about
her daughter's behavior that morning 11
a.m.
Dorothee leaves the family's home in the
posh Upper East Side of Manhattan
she takes $25 with her or about $700 by
today's rates the some didn't seem too
out of the ordinary since she was
shopping for a ball gown after all she's
dressed well as was typical of a woman
with her social status and she was
carrying a large muff purse she has West
4 5th Avenue and then down toward
midtown Manhattan it's about an hour's
walk but it probably took Arnold longer
since the streets were icy and slippery
on her way Dorothy meets several
acquaintances later on they'll all
recall that she was in a particularly
good mood she even stopped in at a candy
store on the corner of Fifth Avenue in
27th Street for a box of chocolates the
clerk at the shop will also recount to
detectives that nothing seems strange
about miss Arnold's mood or behavior
1:00 p.m. on 27th Street Dorothy goes to
brentano's book store where she buys a
collection of funny stories and essays
upon leaving the shop she bumps into her
friend Gladys King she's also been
invited to Marjorie's party and they
discussed this event in chat for a while
then Gladys excuses herself as she's
supposed to meet her mom for lunch
2:00 p.m. Dorothy waives a farewell to
Gladys and heads home she decides to go
through Central Park on her way at least
that's what she tells her friend and
that was the last time anyone saw
Dorothy Arnold in the evening of
December 12th Dorothy still hadn't
arrived home but there wasn't any
immediate cause for alarm Dorothy was a
grown woman and she was out and about
taking care of her own errands perhaps
she was having a hard time finding the
perfect dress maybe she met up with
friends
when she didn't come home that night her
parents figured that she'd stayed at her
boyfriend's they sounded the alarm only
when Dorothy hadn't come home by the
next evening they didn't go to the
police though not yet her father didn't
want to make a stir he was afraid of
damaging his business reputation because
of a possible scandal the thing is at
that time it wasn't quite common for a
young single woman to date men and not
get married if the Press wrote something
about it
mr. Arnold's good name would be ruined
he also suspected that someone could
have abducted his daughter to demand a
ransom from the well-off family he
didn't want to make things more
complicated by giving publicity to this
story Plus what if that gave other bad
guys the idea of kidnapping his other
daughter
it seems bizarre that he didn't go to
the authorities right away but you also
must imagine what was going through his
head at the time instead the Arnold's
turned to a friend of Dorothy's older
brother John s Keith was a lawyer he
knew the missing girl well and he had
connections so the family friend got
down to business immediately keith
interviewed Dorothy's friends
acquaintances and shop assistants that
worked in the young woman's favorite
stores
little by little he started putting
together a detailed account of Dorothy's
last day but there was still no
information out there on what happened
to her after she parted ways with her
friend Keith went to all the hospitals
and mortuaries in New York and sent
requests to nearby cities but nothing
turned up he also searched the girls
room and found only one strange thing
there were burnt sheets of paper in the
fireplace he couldn't make out the text
but there were some Flyers of ships
carrying passengers from the u.s. to
Europe it looked like this investigation
would require more manpower so Keith
recommended the family hire a famous
private detective agency called
Pinkerton
detectives check passenger lists of all
ships that were going to Europe their
contacts across the Atlantic kept an eye
out for a woman arriving by ship and
matching Dorothy's description again
nothing was found however the young
woman's boyfriend George Griscom jr. was
in Europe at the time Dorothy had met
the 42 year old Philadelphia native
while she was in college in December
1910 he was on vacation in Florence with
his family perhaps the pieces of this
puzzle were finally falling into place
Dorothy's parents had always been
against her relationship with Griscom so
maybe the two went to Europe to secretly
elope
the Arnold sent a telegram to Griscom
asking him what he knew about their
daughter's whereabouts he answered that
he knew nothing this reply didn't
satisfy them so On January 16th 1911
Dorothy's mother and brother came to the
hotel in Florence where Griscom was
staying to talk to him face-to-face the
girl had been missing for over a month
by then and her brother lost his nerve
he threatened bodily harm if Griscom
didn't tell the truth but he kept saying
he didn't know where dorothy was or what
had happened to her he also showed
concern about her well-being in his
opinion she might have decided to end
her life as proof of that he showed them
a letter she'd recently written to him
in it
she described how distressed she felt
because she kept getting refusals from
literary magazines that wouldn't publish
her writing the letter did indeed sound
grim failure stares me in the face
all I can see ahead is a long road with
no turning mother will always think an
accident has happened but that version
seems too far-fetched the girl was
ambitious and was looking for popularity
she'd hardly be so discouraged by her
unsuccessful literary temps to harm
herself
Dorothy's brother looked through the
letters that Griscom had kept and
decided that they didn't contain
anything that could be useful in this
investigation
six weeks after his daughter's
disappearance Frances Arnold finally
gave in he invited journalists for a
press conference and assumed that she
had been attacked well on her way home
through Central Park seems unlikely that
a popular and easily recognizable woman
could be attacked in broad daylight
without any witnesses seeing anything
but you never know
in any case the police then joined the
search they did a thorough investigation
checking every square foot of Central
Park and still no traces of Dorothy were
found they also verified George
Grissom's alibi a lot of eyewitnesses
could confirm that on December 12 1910
he wasn't even in the u.s. let alone in
New York not a single shred of evidence
that Griscom was connected with
Dorothy's appearance was ever found
besides he himself spent several
thousand dollars on ads in the
newspapers where he begged Dorothy to
come back he told the press that he was
going to marry her even if her parents
were against it there's also the theory
that she simply ran away it was known
that she had been feeling particularly
down about the magazine refusals in fact
it's believed that the burnt papers in
the fireplace that had been found in the
early days of the investigation were
letters of refusal had the money she'd
taken for a ball gown been really meant
for a secret escape the day before her
disappearance she'd also taken an
additional $36 that's nine hundred
twenty-five dollars by today's rate to
supposedly have lunch with some friends
together with the dress money she'd have
around $1,500 to start a new life
but that's highly doubtful as well why
would a rich socialite decide to abandon
her friends family at home just because
she was having a hard time kick-starting
her writing career besides the day of
her disappearance she wasn't carrying
any bags big enough to fit clothes
inside and even if she could fit some in
her purse none of her outfits were
missing from her room all witnesses say
she was intact
strange or secretive the day of her
disappearance so by all accounts the
woman just vanished Dorothy's father
finally concluded that she died as a
result of some accident although no body
was ever found
unfortunately despite what would have
been over two million dollars spent
searching for their daughter
Dorothy's family never did find her the
mystery is still unsolved
more than a hundred years later all
right it's your turn which theory about
Dorothy Arnold's disappearance do you
think makes the most sense let me know
down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend
but don't you disappear just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life